# Space-Golf
A digital 2D physics-based game I made with 3 other people over the course of five weeks (September 2014 - October 2014).

Space Golf was a 2D game made in the same class with the same people along the same parameters as Arms Race: a game created and rapidly prototyped over the course of five weeks in small teams. It is a simple game made in Processing wherein a player has to navigate a spaceship around several planets to reach an end portal. The player moves this ship by pressing one key (the forward arrow) to give the ship a short, accelerating boost. The challenge of the game is found in the maneuvering around the obstacles while contending with each planet’s gravity and the physics of space. Coming into close proximity to any of the planets begins to pull the ship towards the body. At the same time, the ship accelerates and decelerates slowly, necessitating very deliberate actions to avoid collisions. Finally, the player has to contend with a continuously decrementing score that is further reduced each time the player “pushes” the ship and restarts the player if it reaches zero. Upon completing the level, the player is congratulated, the number of tries is tallied, and his or her score is displayed. 

Working on Space Golf was, in many ways, similar to working on Arms Race. Like the previous game, our team (comprised of the same people) was blessed team with good chemistry and a common vision for the completed game.  While work on this game was more compartmentalized than the previous one, there were still less emphasis on specialization and everyone had at least a small hand in all aspects of the game, from programming to design to art. When designing the game, we were aiming for something that was challenging and required many tries to complete without becoming too frustrating to continue playing. Our goal was in the guise of games like Super Meat Boy or I Wanna be the Guy where continuously failing is part of the experience and rote memorization is essential. Each “death” comes quickly and instantly places the player back at the starting position, restarts the score, and increments the number of tries for that level.  My main contributions were two-fold: design and programming; though as stated above, everybody played a part everywhere. For the design aspect, I came up with the initial idea for the game, pushing for and designing the overall experience of the game (the challenging “begin, get a little farther, fail, repeat” gameplay), as well as creating each of the three unique levels with escalating difficulty. On the programming side, I implemented the user controls, pause function, score and its decrementing behavior, menu navigation, screen/menu transition, death and respawning behavior, and being able quickly create new levels by creating and placing multiple, unique obstacles in specific locations.  

Working Space Golf was not without its difficulties, though.  Unlike Arms Race, Space Golf was a much more iterative process; continuously evolving as elements were refined, balanced, and added or removed. Short of a few aspects requiring repeated attention, the vast majority of our development cycle focused on improving already workable elements and adding new ideas to strengthen the game. Having a very simple concept for the game and achieving that initial bare-minimum quickly allowed us to build upon our base game for weeks. However, elements like the physics (how much pull each planet exerted on the ship and where their gravity’s horizon ended, for example) and certain quirks with user input did plague the development process until a few days before the project’s completion. Overall though, Space Golf was one of the more enjoyable and smoother projects I’ve worked on and I am very pleased with the finished product.
